HDDS-4042. Update documentation for the GA release (#1269)
apache/hadoop-ozone: hadoop-hdds/docs/content/interface/Cli.md

  limitations under the License.
-->

 Ozone  shell is the primary interface to interact with Ozone. It provides a command shell interface to work against Ozone. It uses the [Java API]({{< ref "interface/JavaApi.md">}}).
 
 There are some functionality which couldn't be accessed without using `ozone sh` commands. For example:
 
  1. Creating volumes with quota
  2. Managing internal ACLs
  3. Creating buckets with encryption key
  
All of these are one-time, administration tasks. Applications can use Ozone without this CLI using other interface like Hadoop Compatible File System (o3fs or ofs) or S3 interface.

Ozone shell help can be invoked at _object_ level or at _action_ level.

For example:

```bash
ozone sh volume --help
```

This will show all possible actions for volumes.

or it can be invoked to explain a specific action like

```bash
ozone sh volume create --help
```

This command will give you command line options of the create command.

## General Command Format

The Ozone shell commands take the following format.

> _ozone sh object action url_

**ozone** script is used to invoke all Ozone sub-commands. The ozone shell is
invoked via ```sh``` command.

> The object can be a volume, bucket or a key. The action is various verbs like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Object can be volume, bucket or key. Actions are various verbs like
```

create, list, delete etc.

Ozone URL can point to a volume, bucket or keys in the following format:

_\[schema\]\[server:port\]/volume/bucket/key_

Where,

1. **Schema** - This should be `o3` which is the native RPC protocol to access
  Ozone API. The usage of the schema is optional.

2. **Server:Port** - This is the address of the Ozone Manager. If the port is
omitted the default port from ozone-site.xml will be used.

> Depending on the call, the volume/bucket/key names will be part of the URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Please see volume commands, bucket commands, and key commands section for more
detail.

> ## Volume operation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Volume operations
```

> Volume is the top level element of the hierarchy and supposed to managed only by the administrators. Quota and the owner user can be defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Volume is the top level element of the hierarchy, managed only by administrators. Optionally, quota and the owner user can be specified.
```

Example commands:

```shell

> > ozone sh volume create /vol1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ ozone sh volume create /vol1
```

```

```shell

> bash-4.2$ ozone sh volume info /vol1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ ozone sh volume info /vol1
```

{
  "metadata" : { },
  "name" : "vol1",
  "admin" : "hadoop",
  "owner" : "hadoop",
  "creationTime" : "2020-07-28T12:31:50.112Z",
  "modificationTime" : "2020-07-28T12:31:50.112Z",
  "acls" : [ {
    "type" : "USER",
    "name" : "hadoop",
    "aclScope" : "ACCESS",
    "aclList" : [ "ALL" ]
  }, {
    "type" : "GROUP",
    "name" : "users",
    "aclScope" : "ACCESS",
    "aclList" : [ "ALL" ]
  } ],
  "quota" : 1152921504606846976
}
```

```shell

> ozone sh volume list /

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ ozone sh volume list /
```

{
  "metadata" : { },
  "name" : "s3v",
  "admin" : "hadoop",
  "owner" : "hadoop",
  "creationTime" : "2020-07-27T11:32:22.314Z",
  "modificationTime" : "2020-07-27T11:32:22.314Z",
  "acls" : [ {
    "type" : "USER",
    "name" : "hadoop",
    "aclScope" : "ACCESS",
    "aclList" : [ "ALL" ]
  }, {
    "type" : "GROUP",
    "name" : "users",
    "aclScope" : "ACCESS",
    "aclList" : [ "ALL" ]
  } ],
  "quota" : 1152921504606846976
}
....
```

> ## Bucket operation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Bucket operations
```

> Bucket is the second level hierarchy, similar to the AWS S3 buckets. Users can create buckets in volumes with permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bucket is the second level of the object hierarchy, and is similar to AWS S3 buckets. Users can create buckets in volumes, if they have the necessary permissions.
```

Command examples:

```shell

> > ozone sh bucket create /vol1/bucket1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ ozone sh bucket create /vol1/bucket1
```

```shell

```shell

> > ozone sh bucket info /vol1/bucket1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ ozone sh bucket info /vol1/bucket1
```

{
  "metadata" : { },
  "volumeName" : "vol1",
  "name" : "bucket1",
  "storageType" : "DISK",
  "versioning" : false,
  "creationTime" : "2020-07-28T13:14:45.091Z",
  "modificationTime" : "2020-07-28T13:14:45.091Z",
  "encryptionKeyName" : null,
  "sourceVolume" : null,
  "sourceBucket" : null
}
```

> Bucket is the level of the [Transparent Data Encryption]({{< ref "security/SecuringTDE.md" >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Transparent Data Encryption]({{< ref "security/SecuringTDE.md" >}}) can be enabled at the bucket level.
```

> ## Key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Key operations
```

Key is the object which can store the data.

```shell

> >ozone sh key put /vol1/bucket1/README.md README.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ ozone sh key put /vol1/bucket1/README.md README.md
```

```

<div class="alert alert-warning" role="alert">

> The standard `ozone sh _object_type _action_ _url_` scheme can cause some confusion here as the parameter order is `ozone sh key put <DESTINATION> <SOURCE>` instead of the opposite. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case the standard `ozone sh <object_type> <action> <url>` scheme may be a bit confusing at first, as it results in the syntax `ozone sh key put <destination> <source>` instead of the arguably more natural order of `<source> <destination>`.
```

</div>

```shell

> >ozone sh key info /vol1/bucket1/README.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ ozone sh key info /vol1/bucket1/README.md
```

{
  "volumeName" : "vol1",
  "bucketName" : "bucket1",
  "name" : "README.md",
  "dataSize" : 3841,
  "creationTime" : "2020-07-28T13:17:20.749Z",
  "modificationTime" : "2020-07-28T13:17:21.979Z",
  "replicationType" : "RATIS",
  "replicationFactor" : 1,
  "ozoneKeyLocations" : [ {
    "containerID" : 1,
    "localID" : 104591670688743424,
    "length" : 3841,
    "offset" : 0
  } ],
  "metadata" : { },
  "fileEncryptionInfo" : null
}
```

```shell

> >ozone sh key get /vol1/bucket1/README.md /tmp/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ ozone sh key get /vol1/bucket1/README.md /tmp/
```
